.. _v1_7_1:

Argus 1.7.1 (05-05-2017)
========================

The Argus 1.7.1 release introduces support for different X.509 CA
Authentication profiles via the new Authentication Profile Policy Information
Point (PIP).

With this support, it is possible to define which authentication profiles are
enabled at the VO level, and for any trusted X.509 certificate. This first
level of authorization is implemented at the PEP server, that uses a special
policy file, called VO-CA-AP file, to determine which authentication profiles
are enabled. 

Further, finer grained authorization can then be implemented as usual with
policies defined in the PAP using the newly introduced *x509-authn-profile*
attribute, in order to have differentiated access within resources of the same
VO.

In summary, the highlights of this release are:

- The new :ref:`Authentication Profile PIP <argus_pep_pip_authn_profile_pip>`, which
  provides support for different CA authentication profiles in Argus;
- The new *x509-authn-profile* XACML attribute, that allows to write level-of-assurance aware policies, in case
  you need more flexibility than what is allowed by the VO-CA-AP file first level of authorization implememented in 
  the PEP server; 
- The new *x509-subject-issuer* XACML attribute, which was introduced to simplify the development
  of the Authentication Profile PIP.

Packages
~~~~~~~~

Packages for this release can be obtained from the Argus product team package repository:

http://argus-authz.github.io/repo

Note that EL5/CENTOS5 packages are no longer provided (CENTOS5 is now out of support).

Service configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Instructions on how to configure the Authentication Profile PIP are provided in
the following section:

- :ref:`Authentication Profile PIP configuration <argus_pep_pip_authn_profile_pip>`

Upgrade procedure
-----------------

To install Argus 1.7.1 and obtain a system with the same behavior of the former releases:

#. Update the packages.
#. Reconfigure the services, manually or with a configuration management system
   (such as Puppet, Ansible or Quattor).
#. Restart the services.

Argus 1.7.1 comes with a default configuration that grants the access to
resources only to certificates issued by CAs in the *classic*, *slcs* and
*mics* IGTF profiles.

To enable IOTA CA support for selected VOs, you’ll need to:

#. Install the IOTA CA RPM, that provides the IOTA CA certificates and the policy info files;
#. Customize a VO-CA-AP policy file which states which authentication profiles are
   enabled for VOs and trusted certificates.
   This file can be provided by an RPM, such as ``lcmaps-plugins-vo-ca-ap`` package,
   or written manually by the system administrator, with the syntax described
   `here <https://wiki.nikhef.nl/grid/Lcmaps-plugins-vo-ca-ap#vo-ca-ap-file>`__.
#. Edit the Argus PEP server configuration file (``/etc/argus/pepd/pepd.ini``)
   to point the VO-CA-AP policy file, setting the
   ``authenticationProfilePolicyFile`` property with the ``vo-ca-ap-file`` absolute path.

   For example:

   ``authenticationProfilePolicyFile = /etc/grid-security/vo-ca-ap-file``
#. Restart the services.

Main fixes
~~~~~~~~~~

PEP Server
----------

Milestone `argus-pep-server-1.7.1`_:

- Introduce support for Authentication Profiles in Argus [`pep-21`_].
- Introduce new *x509-subject-issuer* and *x509-authn-profile* attributes [`pep-22`_].

PAP
---
Milestone `argus-pap-1.7.1`_:

- Introduce new *x509-subject-issuer* and *x509-authn-profile* attributes [`pap-14`_], [`pap-15`_].


.. _argus-pep-server-1.7.1: https://github.com/argus-authz/argus-pep-server/milestone/2
.. _pep-21: https://github.com/argus-authz/argus-pep-server/issues/21
.. _pep-22: https://github.com/argus-authz/argus-pep-server/issues/22
.. _argus-pap-1.7.1: https://github.com/argus-authz/argus-pap/milestone/1
.. _pap-14: https://github.com/argus-authz/argus-pap/issues/14
.. _pap-15: https://github.com/argus-authz/argus-pap/issues/15
